--------------------------------------------
Learning C++ 
--------------------------------------------

Basic of Object oriented Programming
----------------------------------------------------- 
	Models to represent reality
	Encapsulations:
		Keep data and operations in their model 
		It must include info only about themselves
		Operations must be consice 
		Example: car model shouldn't contain gas price.
	Class:
		c++ construct of model
		Two types - Data, Functions [car.make, car.paint()]
		instance of class also known as object.
	Access specifiers:
		Members may be public, private or protected
		Private member - only with in class
		Protected member - accessible in inherited class
	Inheritance:
		Class may have subclass based on it.
		A subclass may inherit member from super class
		Example: Animal.legs, dog.legs bird.wings
	Polymorphism:
		Sibling classes
		Super class defines some functions but inherit version is implemented differently in subclass making it polymorphic

using namespace std; // --> It eliminates need to specify where variables and functions in the standard library are declared (like cout, cin,
vector. endl etc)resulting in short code. Although the statement saves us from typing std:: whenever we wish to access a class or type defined 
in the std namespace, it imports the entirety of the std namespace into the current namespace of the program. it is considers as bad practice


Data Types:
----------------------------------------------------- 
	Integers:
		Signed or Unsigned
		implementaion dependent - 32 bit or 16 bit
		char (8 bit) can be used to show ASCII
		stdint.h contains portable types like unit32_t, int8_t
	https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/types

	Floating point numbers:
		Float
		Double 
		Long Double

	Boolean:
		{TRUE, FALSE}
		anything other than 0 is TRUE

	Pointers:
		Special datatype for memory address.
		Pointers may act as reference to existing variable
		same pointer can be used to access many variable sequence wise

Variables:
	Temporary data storage unit 
	Must be declared prior to use
	Must specify type and name
	declaration may contain initialization

	int 123, -5 //decimal   023  //octal, 0x3A //Hexadecimal, 0b1101 //binary, 23U //Unsigned
	float 23.0f, 0.0f
	double 25.4, -22.5
	char 'a' , 'X', '\0', '\n' [fits in 8 bit but ASCII represents in single quotes]
	string "Hello"  [string literals between double quotes]

	GLOBAL  									| Local
	All part of code							| limited to scope of function or loop only 
	Allocated memory by data segment of memory	| Allocated inside stack which is temporary 
	once program ends then mem. is freed 		| execution leaves once scope variable deleted and mem. is freed

Expressions:
	symbolic representation of calculation
	may contain variable, constant and operator
	must produce a value

Assignment:
	line of code that assigns a value to variable
	must contain left hand side and right hand side
	left side must be able to hold value
	data type of both expressions must match (not enforced by compiler - Signed to Unsigned)

Operations:
	Arithmentic :  + - * / %
	Bitwise : & | ~ ^
	Logical : && || !
	Relations : == != > < >= <=
	Pointers : 	* (access to variable it point to)
				& (address of variable)
				-> (access of member of class or structur from pointer)
	https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/operator_precedence

Auto (type inference)
	TYPEID operator is implementaion dependent so it will show int, float, bool, char or i, f, b, c single letter

Preprocessor directives:
	Your code is preprocessed prior to compiling
	directives tells the preprocessor what to add or remove
	useful for Libraries, Constants, selection code blocks etc 
	using MACROS, IFDEF etc 
	Some of most popular c header files have been made available in cpp as well names like cstdind (preceed with lower case c)
	IFDEF - to include code Conditionally 

Constants:
	useful for parameters in code
	Identifiers with values that will not change during execution
	may be implemented via directives or as variables
	you can define Const qualifier 
		scope encapsulation is enforced
		declaration specific type 

Array:
	collection of data
	homogeneous
	fixed size
	contiguous in memory
	AUTO doesn't work for array

Strings:
	String class:
		not native support 
		Available as standard class <string>, std::string 
		Array of chars terminated with zero
		Operator overloading - redefine operations by existing operator by tapping into semantics of the langauge

Type Casting:
	How to interpret piece of data, useful for converting data types
	Example: int32_t or float 
	Syntax: (unit32_t) (expression)

Q&A:
1.
What does this part of a main.cpp file do?
#include "library.h"
	Causes the replacement of the #include directive by the entire contents of the source file library.h. This is similar to a Copy-Paste operation of library.h into main.cpp.
2.
Why is it important to specify the data type when declaring a variable.
	Because the compiler needs to know how to interpret the data, and its width in bytes.
3.
When is type casting useful?
	when an operation needs to be performed on specific data types like float or int
4.
What is the assumed type of a constant represented in the source code as 0.44?
	double
5.
What is type casting?
	Explicitly specifying the data type of an expression.
6.
What does the auto type specifier do in this line of code? (since C++11)
auto x = 40000.22;
	Specifies that the type of x will be deduced from the initializer. In this case, double.
7.
Which of the following is not a built-in operator of the C++ programming language?
	Logical XOR
8.
What's a disadvantage of defining constants as macros?
	They may lead to syntax errors.
9.
Suppose you want to have several lines of code that print data out for debugging purposes, but you don't want those lines to make it to the final application, for efficiency reasons. Which of the following achieves the desired behavior by using preprocessor directives?
	// comment the following line for the final application
	#define DEBUGGING

	// copy and customize this for every debugging line
	#ifdef DEBUGGING
	cout<<"Var1 = "<<var1<<endl;
	#endif
10.
What is a variable of type double?
	a floating point number
11.
How does the string data type work in C++?
	Strings are implemented as the string class in the string header file.
12.
What's a correct way of accessing the third element in the following array?
int array[10];
	array[2]


Structures, Classes and Pointers
----------------------------------------------------- 
Structures
	containers of heterogeneous data memebers
	Useful for implementing simple Models
	available in C constructs as well but dont follow same syntax in CPP

Enums
	sets of symbols that acts as constant and they are usually assigned consecutive values. 
	prefering enum over constant is that they provide encapsulation

Classes	
	Basic elements of Object oriented programming
	Used for implementing Models
	contain data and function Members
	it means same in java or python classes
	By default class member are private. if you make all data member as public then we forced class to be struct
	We should Encapsulate data member from outside world and use getter/setter function to access it. 
	When we assigns we write to data member and when we print we reads data member
	Constructor of a class is called when object is created - its public member function and it sets memory for all data members
	Implicit constructor is always called when object is called.
	if we write a class which are correlated, we dont want to tweak data freely from outside thats why use function written inside your class only.

Header and implementaion files.
	Header files contain class definintions and function declaration
	implementaion files contains execution code
	implementaion files must include their header file
	your code should only include header files
	All implementaion file must be compiled 

	Compiler 	- 	C++ Source file
						|					 
	Assembler 	-	Assembly file (Human readable native langauge or target CPU)
						|
	Linker 		- 	Object file (Other Object files from distributed Libraries)
						|
					Executable binary 

Pointers
	Special type of variable which holds memory address
	We specify the type of variable we will be pointing to followed by name of pointer precedence via asterisk (*) (int a = 37; int *ptr; ptr = &a )
	For 32 bit CPU pointer will be 32 bit. 
	Pointer are mostly used for dynamic memory management, when you declare variable that memory will be needed and compiler creates that but most real application creates variables and object in memory during run time. this is known dynamic memory allocation. 
	In c it is common to dynamically allocate memory via malloc and as programmer you are responsible to release that
	Pointers dynamically allocate when calling class constructor and free them when you dont need them

References
	Special datatypes
	Aliases to existing variables: int& my_ref = my_int; 
	References are not pointers nor objects and they dont have address
	There are no arrays of references
	There are no pointer to References
	There are no references to references
	application:
		Pass parameters by reference so program will not copy objects as function parameters
		Avoid copying large object in for loops

Pointers 							| References
--------------------------			----------------- 
initialization is optional			| Must be initialized at declaration
can point to different object 		| can't reference a second object
Can be void and NULL 				| have a fixed type and object
Multiple level of indirection		| one level of indirection
Must be dereferenced to access data | No need to dereferencing as its just aliases
Pointer are more powerful 			| references are safer 

Vectors 
	Dynamic-size containers
	The memory is managed for you
	Generic container class
	part for standard template Library
	Two ends - inserting at start requires reallocation so always add at end. 


Q&A:
1.
What would be the correct declaration of a constructor for a class named Sprite?
	public:
	Sprite();

2.
What is one purpose of a structure?
	to contain several data members of different types

3.
Which of the following is an actual difference between a pointer and an iterator?
	Incrementing an iterator always means accessing the next element in the container (if any), no matter the container. Incrementing a pointer means pointing to the next element in memory, not always the next element.

4.
Which of the following is a true statement about the difference between pointers and references?
	A reference cannot be assigned a new value (i.e. refer to a new object other than the original.)

5.
What's the correct way to call the count member function for the object pointer called grades?
class my_array{
 public:
  int count();
};  // ... more members above

int main(){
 my_array *grades = new my_array();
} // ... more code above

	grades->count()

6.
Why is it not possible to declare an array of references, a pointer to a reference, or a reference to a reference?
	Because references are not objects nor variables, so they are not guaranteed to occupy storage and have an address.

7.
The '&' character has many uses in the C++ programming language. Which of the following is not one of these uses?
	to declare a pointer to a function

8.
What is the statement below equivalent to? 
sprite->x
	(*sprite).x

9.
Suppose you want to have several lines of code that print some variables out for debugging purposes, but you don't want those lines to make it to the final application, for efficiency reasons. Which of the following achieves the desired behavior producing the shortest possible code length regardless of the level of optimization used?
	// comment the following line for the final application
	#define DEBUGGING

	// copy and customize this for every debugging line
	#ifdef DEBUGGING
	cout<<"Var1 = "<<var1<<endl;
	#endif

10.
Which of the following is an include guard for the header file my_library.h?
	#ifndef MY_LIBRARY_H
	#define MY_LIBRARY_H

	// my_library.h content 

	#endif /* MY_LIBRARY_H */

11.
What is the purpose of the following line in a header file?
#pragma once
	to make the compiler only parse that header file once even if it is included multiple times in the source

12.
What is an include guard?
	a preprocessor statement that prevents a source file to be included more than once in a project

13.
What is the following expression equivalent to?
A->B->C->D
	*(*((*A).B).C).D

14. 
What's the correct way to call the count member function for the object called grades?
class my_array{
 public:
  my_array();
  int count();
  // ... more members
};
int main(){
 my_array grades;
 // ... more code
 return 0;
}
	grades.count()

15.
Which of the following is a type almost identical to a class?
	Struct

16.
What's the difference between a public and a private class member?
	Public members can be accessed by any function, while private members can only be accessed by the same class' member functions and the friends of the class.


Control Flow 
----------------------------------------------------- 
IF Statements
Switch  
While Loops - first condition is checked
Do While loop - first we do task and check while letter. use if you are sure on getting inside code without checking condition first
For Loop - when we know the range to traverse 

Q&A:
1.
What's the correct syntax of an if statement in C++?
	if(condition)
	// true block
	else
	// false block

2.
What's a difference between a while loop and a do...while loop?
	do...while loops always run the body of the loop in the first iteration regardless of the condition.

3.
When is a switch statement useful?
	When we want to branch to different blocks of code according to some values of a variable.

4.
What's the meaning of the two sections specified between parentheses in a range-based for loop, separated by a colon?
	The first is a variable declaration which will hold an element in a sequence. The second is the sequence to traverse.

5.
What's the meaning of the three sections specified between parentheses in a for loop, separated by semicolons?
	The first is the initialization block, the second is the condition to iterate, and the third is the increment block.


Functions
----------------------------------------------------- 
Procedural blocks that return a value
Functions usually receive fixed number of arguments
Parameters take the values of their arguments
Functions may be global or members of a class 

Function Parameters : 
	pass by value (creates copies)
	pass by pointers (address of variable, it is dangerous but possible)
	pass by references (best options)

1.
Which of the following is NOT a difference between passing arguments by pointer or by reference.
	Pointer arguments use the same syntax as reference arguments.

2.
What's a difference between the implementation of a global function and a member function?
	Member function implementations need to specify the class with the scope resolution operator (double colon).

3.
Why is a function prototype necessary?
	Because it informs the compiler about the return data type, and the parameter types prior to using the functions.

File I/O
----------------------------------------------------- 
fstream header - part if input output lib. 


1.
Which class can be used to read from a text file?
	ifstream
2.
Which of the following is NOT an advantage of using the insertion operator for writing into a file?
	It's safe to use when the file is not open, or it doesn't exist.


----------------------------------------------------- 
Older notes 
----------------------------------------------------- 

https://repl.it/  - online IDE 
https://cpp.sh/   - online C++ program

- Object oriented language
- GUI/HTML take button click where as C or Java have compiler
- Algo needs to be defined in Cpp
	Variable 
		Temp space in memory to hold data
		can be dynamic (changes with user input) or constant 
	Computer assigns data right to left X = 100 [100 will be assigned to X]

CH1
	Hello Word to take cout and cin and print it 

CH2 - Data representation
	Added it in notesChap2.cpp

	Quiz:

		Question 1 of 5
		If we wanted to store whole numbers, which would be the best data type to choose?
		You are correct!
		integer

		Question 2 of 5
		All variables can be overwritten with a new value?
		Correct answer:
		FALSE

		Question 3 of 5
		Integers will truncate the decimal portion instead of rounding it up or down.
		You are correct!
		TRUE

		Question 4 of 5
		How many dimensions can you have in an array?
		You are correct!
		as many as you want

		Question 5 of 5
		How many different data types can you store in the same array?
		You are correct!
		one

CH3 - Flow of Control
	Added it in notesChap3.cpp and solutions

	Quiz:
		Question 1 of 6
		An if within another if is called an embedded if?
		You are correct!
		FALSE

		Question 2 of 6
		The else is required in the if structure?
		You are correct!
		FALSE

		Question 3 of 6
		How many else ifs can you have?
		You are correct!
		as many as you want

		Question 4 of 6
		The other decision structure we use is the switch case?
		You are correct!
		TRUE

		Question 5 of 6
		Loops are used when we want a section of code to repeat for a certain number of times?
		You are correct!
		TRUE

		Question 6 of 6
		The do/while loop is the only post-test loop we commonly use?
		You are correct!

CH4 - Functions 
	Added in notesChap4.cpp and challange solutions

	Quiz:
		Question 1 of 3
		If functions don't return anything, we say they are type void?
		You are correct!
		TRUE

		Question 2 of 3
		Function parameters must match between calling statement and function header by type, order and number .
		You are correct!

		Question 3 of 3
		Efficient coding practice says to put all of your code into as many functions as possible.
		This answer is incorrect.
		TRUE
		Correct answer:
		FALSE

CH5 -  File I/O

	Quiz:
		Question 1 of 3
		Both inputting and outputting from a file can be done by including the fstream library.
		You are correct!
		TRUE

		Question 2 of 3
		Outputting to a text file will always overwrite the text file if it already exists.
		You are correct!
		FALSE

		Question 3 of 3
		You can only open files that are .txt.
		You are correct!
		FALSE


CH6 - Data Structures
	chap6notes.cpp contains data
	Struct 
	Class 
		ClassExample.cpp contains details 
	pointers
	LinkedList

	Quiz:
		Question 1 of 4
		The keywords public, protected and private are called access specifiers.
		You are correct!
		TRUE

		Question 2 of 4
		You can only use pointers to point to integers.
		You are correct!
		FALSE

		Question 3 of 4
		The * is used to denote a pointer.
		You are correct!

		Question 4 of 4
		A linked list is a list of nodes with a pointer .
		You are correct!


--------------------------------------------
C++ Essential Training : Bill Weinman
--------------------------------------------

CH1: Intro - EssT folder 

1. 
What is a compiled language?
	a language that must be converted from source code into something the OS can run. Source code must be compiled through the preprocessor, compiler, and linker before the OS can read it.

2.
After compiling, running, and deleting a source file with Xcode, what should you do before compiling another source file?
	Run the Clean Build Folder command to remove the compiled data.The Clean Build Folder removes the files and paths that are created when the source file is compiled.

3. 
How are command-line programs run in Microsoft Visual Studio?
	They are compiled through Visual Studio, and then run from the Windows command line.
	Visual Studio will compile source files into a program to run, which can be done through PowerShell.


CH2: Basic Syntax 
	(hello.cpp contains details as well)



CH3: Data Types
	Strongly types langauge
	Data Type defines Size and interpretation of a value.
		Signed Int (32 bits) - Values -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
		Unsigned Int (32 bits) - Values - 0 to 4,294,967,295
		primitive types - int, floating, boolean
		Compound type 
			- Array - contiguouse sequential set of object of same type. it is flexible, powerful and have low overhead. also basis of C-String and C++ STL container class
			- No primitive string type, null terminated array of charactes is special case, often called C-string 
			- Struct - Sequential set up of various types, it may contains scalars, arrays, even other struct and classes.
			- c++ classes are based on C-structures, basically class is a structur that defaults to private membership. it contains function member as well as data members 
			- union is set overlapping objects (in memory space)
			- pointer is a reference to object an object of a given type.
			- refernce is like pointer but diff semantics, references are immutable - used as aliases 

CH4: Operators
	Common operators
		Assignment  x = y
		Arithmentic  x = x + y
		compound --> x -= y 
		unary -  ++i, unary minus(-), increment(++), decrement(--), NOT(!), Addressof operator(&), sizeof()
		Logical 
		Bitwise
		ternary 
		Dynamic Memory Operator - specific to cpp only  - new-delete.cpp
		type cast - 
		size of  - working.cpp
		typeid - typeid.cpp
		operator precedence 
CH5: Functions 
	Overview 
		Basic building block 
		call by reference is used is you want to changes values to passed variables otherwise variable remains local to the function
		The return type, the name of the function, and the types of the function arguments are all combined to form the function signature
	Creation of function:
		via top of program
		via forward definition and declaring it later 
		via adding func.h where you can declare
	Passing a value to function:
		makes sure not to pass large values  to functions as it gets copied over to stack. rather pass it by reference or pointer
		internally, a reference is managed as a pointer, and so it's a relatively small amount of data that gets passed on the stack. By default, function parameters are passed by value in C++. You can pass pointers or references if you need to pass larger values, but you'll need to do so explicitly.
	Auto and static 
		Variables declared in a function default to automatic storage, if you want your data to be persistent, you may declare your variables as static
		non persistend data (auto) is defined in stack and each invocation function gets fresh stack of value
	Returing values and references 
	function pointers  - check jump.cpp
	ocerloading function - cpp checks for full function signature where as c required each function names to be unique - check volume.cpp
	variable number of arguments  - cstdarg lib - check variadic.cpp 
	recursive - factorial

CH6: Classes and Objects
	Overview
		Class (custom fundamental datatypes) & object
		Object get instanciated with class - it is called class instance as well
		Class have data memebers (properties) and functions (method) in it
		Class contain Constructors (basically a member function with the same name as the class itself, and it's used to initialize each of the data members) and one destructor
		by calling destructor we can remove object instances
	Defining class - class.cpp
	Data Members - struct and class are kind of same. Struct have all public data member where as in class you need to define it public.
	Function member - class.cpp
	Constructors and Deconstructors - constructors.cpp
	operator overload - with member function and non member function
CH7: Templates
	Generic type - any data type can be processed 
	temp. Func
	Temp Class. - LIFO stack. temp-class.cpp
CH8: Standard Libraries
	Standard lib's are inherited from c. 
CH9: Standard Template Lib (STL)
	cpp standard 
	like 
		vector - Sequence containers  You can think of it as an object-oriented array
		list - double linked list  - optimized for faster inserts and deletes 
		set - ordered sequence container 
		map - key value pairs - associative container
		LIFO (stack), FIFO (queue), double ended containers (deque)
		Strings and iostring

--------------------------------------------
C++ Templates and the STL: Bill Weinman
--------------------------------------------
Learning objectives
	Template fundamentals
	STL containers
	Accessing iterators
	Output, forward, and bidirectional iterators
	The transform function
	Transforming strings and types
	Arithmetic, relational, and logical functions
	STL algorithms

CH1: Templates
	A template is essentially a compiler abstraction that allows you to write generic code that applies to various types or classes without concern for the details of the type.
	when you call the function a specialization with required datatype is created.
	template classes are generally entirely contained in the header file and this does impact compile times.	
CH2: STL containers
	The STL array type is a fixed-size sequence container. The size of the array is defined when the array object is created. The size cannot change during the life of the array. The array object is available beginning with C++ 11. The array is designed to be fast and efficient. Although less functional than a vector, it carries no data other than its elements, and those elements are guaranteed to be stored in contiguous memory locations.
CH3: STL iterators
CH4: Transformations
CH5: STL Functions
CH6: STL Algorithm





-----------------------------------------------------
C++ Standard Template Library (STL): Eduardo Corpeño
-----------------------------------------------------

https://en.cppreference.com/w/
Open source c++ IDE
	1. Dev-C++ 
	2. Eclipse 
	3. VS Code community 
	4. XCODE
	5. onlinegdb.com

Generic Programming (Compile time polymorphism)
	Programming paradigm where data types are not specified in implementaion of code, but rather in its use